bees are older than humans
the day sam finds it out his life
changes forever
the man is an inventor so what if
usually his inventions
don't really work this time though he
constructs something functioning
which is totally unexpected the time
machine
he just has to figure out for himself
how old are
earth's inhabitants the only problem is
that
uh well you'll see
sam's first stop isn't that far into the
past just a bit more than 40 years ago
he sees scientists in a lab they're
fussing over something he can't see
ah it's the year 1975
and researchers have just discovered the
nylon eating bacteria
these bacterias couldn't have existed
before 1935
because that's when nylon was invented
the time machine takes sam to his next
destination
a point of time around 10 000 years ago
after stepping out in the fresh air the
man hears a loud
meow a cat is running towards him
the animal looks pretty much like any
modern day kitty
ah yes scientists claim that cats were
domesticated already 12
000 years ago but the first cat's
ancestor
appeared 10 to 15 million years ago
the next stop is way further into the
bed
around 20 000 years bce sam dares to
leave the machine
and cautiously steps outside
is that a wolf behind that tree it's
just a dog
by this time they have already evolved
from a now extinct wolf species
after that the time capsule takes sam
even deeper into the past
and he finds himself in africa that's
where homo sapiens which is you and me
and sam himself
appear around 300 000 years ago they
were smaller than their ancestors
and had impressively big brains less
heavy jaws
and smaller teeth but sam doesn't have
time to make friends with
early modern humans he needs to travel
further
he lands about 5 million years into the
past
and just look at that a fluffy elephant
yep that's the first mammoth ever the
south african mammoth
oh by the way the last mammoth species
to appear was the woolly mammoth
the size of the modern african elephant
it developed around 400 000 years ago in
east asia
sam turns around and heads for his time
machine when he notices another
hairless mammoth only it's not a mammoth
it's one of the first
modern elephant ancestors which also
evolved around seven to five million
years ago
it means elephants and mammoths were
roaming the planet at the same time
the machine takes sam 20 million years
into the past
and he sees the first ostriches the
largest living bird with eyes so big
that they're larger than the bird's
brain first appeared in africa
the next stop and sam is 50 million
years into the past
what he spots there is a chicken well at
least
it's a bird that looks a bit like the
modern day chicken which apparently has
multiple ancestors mostly from southeast
asia
four species of wild jungle fowl added
to the chicken's gene pool
but the bird was domesticated only ten
thousand to eight thousand years ago
before sam has time to hop in his
capsule he notices a rat
sized it turns out to be the first
primate
scientists managed to figure out it
belonged to the primate family only
thanks to the creature's teeth
even so they still had a hard time
connecting these
50 million year old critters to modern
primates
50 million years into the past turns out
to be a curious time
sam notices a cute dog-sized animal that
resembles
is it a horse ride the first horses were
rather miniature creatures living in the
forests
the next stop is two million years
deeper into the past
and that's when sam discovers the first
bats these creatures are an evolutionary
mystery that has scientists baffled
if the first specimen recognizable as
bats
appeared already 52 million years ago
where did they come from when the time
machine makes a stop
100 million years bce sam
gets the fright of his life just a few
feet from him
there's a gigantic crocodile that's the
so-called
super croc an enormous creature 40 feet
long
and weighing almost 10 tons by this time
crocodiles have already been evolving
into something resembling modern animals
for at least 100 million years
that's why super croc looks familiar
although more than twice
bigger than the animal sam saw in his
time
when sam peeks out of the time machine
around 125 million years ago
he almost gets bitten by one of the
first bees
it has just evolved from carnivorous
wasps
stop bugging me 130 million years into
the past
and sam inhales a fresh scent of the
first
flowering plants it means modern flowers
have been around for a while
but if all earth's history was
compressed into an hour
flowering plants would only exist for
the last minute and a half
sam steps out of his time machine 200
million years ago
and oz at the scenery around the only
thing bothering him
is a faint buzzing sound next to his ear
oh
it's the very first mosquito scientists
connected modern mosquitoes to species
that lived 226 million years ago
they look pretty much the same as most
of the 3
500 mosquito species that exist nowadays
the next thing sam knows he's 300
million years deep into the past
he's gawking at the sky when something
swooshes past him
the creature looks like a dragonfly but
its wingspan is no less than two feet
scientists suppose dragonflies used to
grow that massive
because of the high oxygen level in the
air in those times
about 315 million years bce
sam notices one of the first reptiles
their skins have developed hard shells
and don't have to be kept in water plus
reptile skin
doesn't need to stay wet all the time
that's why the animals can finally move
away from lakes and rivers
when sam leaves his time capsule around
370 million years bce
he sees the first trees starting to win
over the planet
they mostly grow in swamps by that time
plants have already developed special
tissue
and started to produce wood turning into
trees
but only the tree fern has survived
since those ancient times
it grows in tropical rainforests in
australia new zealand and nearby regions
just another 10 million years deeper
into the past
and sam sees some of the earliest ferns
these plants are at least 380 million
years old
but some scientists believe ferns might
be much older with the first of them
evolving 430 million years ago
in any case those have already gone
extinct
by the way the ancestors of some modern
fern species
grew the size of trees
stops his time machine 400 million years
into the past
near a big body of water probably an
ocean
he's staring at the water totally
perplexed is that a shark over there
but then it means they're older than
trees
but how does sam manage to recognize the
animal
earlier than 355 million years bce
sharks looked more like huge eels rather
than torpedo-shaped predators
only 100 million years ago they started
to look like modern animals
with well-developed teeth and a variety
of forms and shapes
sam decides not to change the location
just the time
as why he finds himself at the same
place only 35 million years earlier
he's walking along the shore when he
spots something tiny
on closer inspection he realizes it's a
miniscule starfish
that's smaller than his thumbnail this
species doesn't exist nowadays
bigger and stronger starfish have
replaced the teeny ones
the time capsule brings sam 500 million
years bce
he seems to be still at the same body of
water
as he crouches down he notices a
semi-transparent creature
it has tentacles and a distinct bell
shape it's one of the first
jellyfish sam promises himself
it's the last destination he's going to
visit 600 million years bce
it was a good idea to pick this time
because the man can see
some of the first fungi they live in
water and will move to land
only 140 million years later 250 million
years bce
they already become one of the main
forms of life on earth
interestingly new discoveries make
scientists believe
the very first fungi could have evolved
more than a billion years ago
sam is almost 1 billion years into the
past
when he decides he's seen enough it's
time to head home
only his time machine isn't functioning
panicking sam begins to press the
buttons first
all together and then one by one but all
his efforts are futile
finally he presses a random button
combination
and disappears
the only problem is he hasn't returned
to our time yet